docs/CI_FUTURE_ENHANCEMENTS.md, before:

# CI/CD Future Enhancements

This document outlines planned improvements to the CI/CD pipeline for term-test, organized by roadmap phase and priority.

## Phase 7: Enhanced Features (Post-MVP)

### 1. Cross-Platform Testing

**Status**: Planned for Phase 7
**Priority**: High
**Estimated Effort**: 1-2 weeks

Add macOS and Windows to the test matrix:

```yaml
strategy:
  matrix:
    os: [ubuntu-latest, macos-latest, windows-latest]
    rust: [stable, beta]
```

**Benefits**:
- Catch platform-specific bugs early
- Ensure cross-platform compatibility
- Broader ecosystem adoption

**Challenges**:
- Windows PTY differences
- macOS-specific terminal quirks
- Increased CI minutes usage (~3x)

**Implementation**:
1. Add OS matrix to test job
2. Platform-specific test exclusions where needed
3. Conditional compilation for platform features
4. Update documentation for platform support

---

### 2. Performance Regression Detection

**Status**: Planned for Phase 7
**Priority**: Medium
**Estimated Effort**: 1 week

Automated benchmark comparison against main branch:

```yaml
- name: Compare benchmarks
  run: |
    cargo criterion --all-features --message-format=json > current.json
    git checkout main
    cargo criterion --all-features --message-format=json > baseline.json
    cargo install critcmp
    critcmp baseline.json current.json
```

**Features**:
- Automatic regression detection
- PR comments with performance changes
- Fail CI on >10% performance degradation
- Historical performance tracking

**Metrics to Track**:
- Test harness initialization time
- PTY spawn time
- Screen capture latency
- Event simulation overhead
- Memory usage per test

---

### 3. Nightly Rust Testing

**Status**: Planned for Phase 7
**Priority**: Low
**Estimated Effort**: 2 days

Add nightly Rust to test matrix (allowed to fail):

```yaml
strategy:
  matrix:
    rust: [stable, beta, nightly]
  allow-failures:
    - rust: nightly
```

**Benefits**:
- Early warning for upcoming breaking changes
- Test experimental features
- Prepare for future Rust editions

---

## Phase 8: Advanced Features (Future)

### 4. Visual Regression Testing

**Status**: Future research
**Priority**: Medium
**Estimated Effort**: 2-3 weeks

Implement visual diff testing for terminal output:

**Approach**:
1. Capture terminal state as images (rendered ANSI)
2. Compare against baseline images
3. Highlight visual differences
4. Store baselines in git repository

**Tools to Evaluate**:
- Custom ANSI-to-image renderer
- Pixel-perfect comparison
- Sixel graphics validation

**Use Cases**:
- Verify UI layout consistency
- Test Sixel graphics rendering
- Detect visual regressions in TUI apps

---

### 5. Mutation Testing

**Status**: Future research
**Priority**: Low
**Estimated Effort**: 1-2 weeks

Use cargo-mutants to improve test quality:

```yaml
- name: Run mutation testing
  run: |
    cargo install cargo-mutants
    cargo mutants --all-features
```

**Benefits**:
- Identify weak tests
- Improve code coverage quality
- Find edge cases

**Challenges**:
- Long execution time (30-60 minutes)
- May be too slow for PR workflow
- Better suited for scheduled runs

---

### 6. Fuzzing Integration

**Status**: Future research
**Priority**: Medium
**Estimated Effort**: 2-3 weeks

Add continuous fuzzing with cargo-fuzz:

```yaml
name: Fuzz Testing

on:
  schedule:
    - cron: '0 2 * * *'  # Run nightly at 2 AM

jobs:
  fuzz:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v4
      - run: cargo install cargo-fuzz
      - run: cargo fuzz run parser -- -max_total_time=3600
```

**Targets**:
- ANSI escape sequence parsing
- Sixel sequence parsing
- PTY input/output handling
- Event simulation edge cases

---

### 7. Deploy Previews

**Status**: Future
**Priority**: Medium
**Estimated Effort**: 1 week

Create preview environments for PRs:

**Features**:
- Deploy documentation previews
- Interactive test result viewer
- Coverage diff visualization
- Benchmark comparison UI

**Implementation**:
- Use GitHub Pages + PR number subdirectories
- Build docs on PR
- Clean up old PR previews

---

### 8. Advanced Code Coverage

**Status**: Future
**Priority**: Medium
**Estimated Effort**: 1-2 weeks

Enhanced coverage reporting:

**Features**:
- Branch coverage (not just line coverage)
- Inline coverage annotations in PR
- Coverage by feature flag
- Differential coverage (only changed lines)

**Tools**:
- codecov/codecov-action with advanced features
- cargo-llvm-cov for better instrumentation
- coveralls.io as alternative

---

### 9. Canary Deployments

**Status**: Future (post-1.0)
**Priority**: Low
**Estimated Effort**: 1 week

Implement gradual rollout strategy:

**Process**:
1. Publish pre-release to crates.io (0.x.0-beta.1)
2. Test with early adopters (dgx-pixels)
3. Monitor for issues (1 week)
4. Promote to stable release

**Automation**:
```yaml
on:
  push:
    tags:
      - 'v*-beta.*'
jobs:
  publish-beta:
    # Publish to crates.io as pre-release
```

---

### 10. Security Scanning

**Status**: Planned
**Priority**: High
**Estimated Effort**: 2-3 days

Add additional security scans:

**Tools**:
1. **cargo-deny**: License and advisory checking
   ```yaml
   - run: cargo install cargo-deny
   - run: cargo deny check
   ```

2. **SAST (Static Analysis)**:
   - CodeQL for Rust
   - Semgrep security rules

3. **Dependency Scanning**:
   - Trivy for container scanning
   - Snyk for dependency vulnerabilities

---

### 11. Test Parallelization

**Status**: Future optimization
**Priority**: Medium
**Estimated Effort**: 1 week

Improve test execution speed:

**Strategies**:
1. Split tests across multiple jobs
2. Use nextest for faster test execution
3. Identify and parallelize slow tests
4. Implement test sharding

```yaml
strategy:
  matrix:
    shard: [1, 2, 3, 4]
steps:
  - run: cargo nextest run --partition count:${{ matrix.shard }}/4
```

**Target**: Reduce test time from ~5-7 min to ~2-3 min

---

### 12. Scheduled Maintenance Tasks

**Status**: Planned
**Priority**: Medium
**Estimated Effort**: 2-3 days

Automate routine maintenance:

```yaml
name: Scheduled Maintenance

on:
  schedule:
    - cron: '0 0 * * 0'  # Weekly on Sunday

jobs:
  update-deps:
    # Update dependencies
    # Check for outdated crates
    # Create PR with updates

  cleanup-caches:
    # Remove old caches
    # Optimize cache usage

  security-scan:
    # Deep security scan
    # Generate report
```

---

### 13. AI-Powered Code Review

**Status**: Future research
**Priority**: Low
**Estimated Effort**: 1 week

Integrate AI code review tools:

**Options**:
- GitHub Copilot suggestions
- CodeRabbit for PR reviews
- Custom GPT-4 review workflow

**Use Cases**:
- Suggest test improvements
- Identify potential bugs
- Recommend performance optimizations
- Check documentation quality

---

### 14. Integration Testing with Real TUI Apps

**Status**: Planned for Phase 6
**Priority**: High
**Estimated Effort**: 1-2 weeks

Add integration tests with actual TUI applications:

**Test Suite**:
1. Simple hello-world TUI
2. ratatui counter example
3. bevy_ratatui example app
4. dgx-pixels subset tests

**Benefits**:
- Real-world validation
- Catch integration issues
- Demonstrate usage patterns
- Build confidence

---

### 15. Custom GitHub Actions

**Status**: Future
**Priority**: Low
**Estimated Effort**: 1 week

Create reusable actions for common tasks:

**Actions**:
1. `setup-term-test` - Install and cache term-test
2. `run-tui-tests` - Standard TUI test workflow
3. `report-coverage` - Enhanced coverage reporting
4. `benchmark-compare` - Benchmark comparison

**Benefits**:
- Easier adoption for other projects
- Consistent testing patterns
- Reduced workflow boilerplate

---

## Implementation Priority

### Immediate (Next Sprint)
1. None - MVP CI is complete

### Short Term (Phase 7)
1. Cross-platform testing
2. Performance regression detection
3. Security scanning (cargo-deny)
4. Integration testing with real apps

### Medium Term (Phase 8)
1. Visual regression testing
2. Deploy previews
3. Advanced code coverage
4. Test parallelization

### Long Term (Post-1.0)
1. Fuzzing integration
2. Mutation testing
3. Canary deployments
4. AI-powered review

### Research Needed
1. Visual regression testing approach
2. Mutation testing ROI
3. AI code review tools
4. Custom GitHub Actions design

---

## Cost Analysis

### Current CI Usage
- Free tier: 2,000 minutes/month
- Current usage: ~100 minutes/month (estimated)
- Headroom: 95%

### Projected Usage with Enhancements

| Enhancement | Additional Minutes/Month | Cost Impact |
|-------------|--------------------------|-------------|
| Cross-platform (macOS, Windows) | +200 min | Free tier |
| Nightly builds | +100 min | Free tier |
| Performance benchmarks | +50 min | Free tier |
| Fuzzing (nightly) | +300 min | Free tier |
| Mutation testing (weekly) | +200 min | Free tier |
| **Total** | +850 min | **Still within free tier** |

**Conclusion**: All planned enhancements fit within GitHub's free tier for public repositories.

---

## Success Metrics

### Phase 7 Targets
- Cross-platform support: 100% test pass rate on 3 OSes
- Performance: <5% regression tolerance
- CI time: Keep under 30 minutes total

### Phase 8 Targets
- Visual regression: 0 undetected UI bugs
- Fuzzing: Run 10M+ iterations/week
- Coverage: >80% with >90% branch coverage

### Long-term Goals
- Community adoption: 10+ projects using term-test
- CI reliability: 99% uptime
- Test execution: <100ms average per test
- Zero security vulnerabilities in dependencies

---

## Community Contributions

Ways the community can help with CI enhancements:

1. **Test on Different Platforms**
   - Report platform-specific issues
   - Contribute platform-specific fixes

2. **Performance Benchmarking**
   - Run benchmarks on various hardware
   - Identify performance bottlenecks

3. **Integration Examples**
   - Share CI configurations from projects using term-test
   - Contribute example workflows

4. **Tool Evaluations**
   - Research and test new CI tools
   - Write evaluation reports

---

## References

- [GitHub Actions Documentation](https://docs.github.com/en/actions)
- [cargo-nextest](https://nexte.st/)
- [cargo-mutants](https://mutants.rs/)
- [cargo-fuzz](https://rust-fuzz.github.io/book/cargo-fuzz.html)
- [codecov Advanced Features](https://docs.codecov.com/docs)

---

**Last Updated**: 2025-11-19
**Status**: Planning Document
**Next Review**: After Phase 6 completion

Commit message:

chore: rename project from term-test to mimic

docs/CI_FUTURE_ENHANCEMENTS.md, after:

# CI/CD Future Enhancements

This document outlines planned improvements to the CI/CD pipeline for mimic, organized by roadmap phase and priority.

## Phase 7: Enhanced Features (Post-MVP)

### 1. Cross-Platform Testing

**Status**: Planned for Phase 7
**Priority**: High
**Estimated Effort**: 1-2 weeks

Add macOS and Windows to the test matrix:

```yaml
strategy:
  matrix:
    os: [ubuntu-latest, macos-latest, windows-latest]
    rust: [stable, beta]
```

**Benefits**:
- Catch platform-specific bugs early
- Ensure cross-platform compatibility
- Broader ecosystem adoption

**Challenges**:
- Windows PTY differences
- macOS-specific terminal quirks
- Increased CI minutes usage (~3x)

**Implementation**:
1. Add OS matrix to test job
2. Platform-specific test exclusions where needed
3. Conditional compilation for platform features
4. Update documentation for platform support

---

### 2. Performance Regression Detection

**Status**: Planned for Phase 7
**Priority**: Medium
**Estimated Effort**: 1 week

Automated benchmark comparison against main branch:

```yaml
- name: Compare benchmarks
  run: |
    cargo criterion --all-features --message-format=json > current.json
    git checkout main
    cargo criterion --all-features --message-format=json > baseline.json
    cargo install critcmp
    critcmp baseline.json current.json
```

**Features**:
- Automatic regression detection
- PR comments with performance changes
- Fail CI on >10% performance degradation
- Historical performance tracking

**Metrics to Track**:
- Test harness initialization time
- PTY spawn time
- Screen capture latency
- Event simulation overhead
- Memory usage per test

---

### 3. Nightly Rust Testing

**Status**: Planned for Phase 7
**Priority**: Low
**Estimated Effort**: 2 days

Add nightly Rust to test matrix (allowed to fail):

```yaml
strategy:
  matrix:
    rust: [stable, beta, nightly]
  allow-failures:
    - rust: nightly
```

**Benefits**:
- Early warning for upcoming breaking changes
- Test experimental features
- Prepare for future Rust editions

---

## Phase 8: Advanced Features (Future)

### 4. Visual Regression Testing

**Status**: Future research
**Priority**: Medium
**Estimated Effort**: 2-3 weeks

Implement visual diff testing for terminal output:

**Approach**:
1. Capture terminal state as images (rendered ANSI)
2. Compare against baseline images
3. Highlight visual differences
4. Store baselines in git repository

**Tools to Evaluate**:
- Custom ANSI-to-image renderer
- Pixel-perfect comparison
- Sixel graphics validation

**Use Cases**:
- Verify UI layout consistency
- Test Sixel graphics rendering
- Detect visual regressions in TUI apps

---

### 5. Mutation Testing

**Status**: Future research
**Priority**: Low
**Estimated Effort**: 1-2 weeks

Use cargo-mutants to improve test quality:

```yaml
- name: Run mutation testing
  run: |
    cargo install cargo-mutants
    cargo mutants --all-features
```

**Benefits**:
- Identify weak tests
- Improve code coverage quality
- Find edge cases

**Challenges**:
- Long execution time (30-60 minutes)
- May be too slow for PR workflow
- Better suited for scheduled runs

---

### 6. Fuzzing Integration

**Status**: Future research
**Priority**: Medium
**Estimated Effort**: 2-3 weeks

Add continuous fuzzing with cargo-fuzz:

```yaml
name: Fuzz Testing

on:
  schedule:
    - cron: '0 2 * * *'  # Run nightly at 2 AM

jobs:
  fuzz:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v4
      - run: cargo install cargo-fuzz
      - run: cargo fuzz run parser -- -max_total_time=3600
```

**Targets**:
- ANSI escape sequence parsing
- Sixel sequence parsing
- PTY input/output handling
- Event simulation edge cases

---

### 7. Deploy Previews

**Status**: Future
**Priority**: Medium
**Estimated Effort**: 1 week

Create preview environments for PRs:

**Features**:
- Deploy documentation previews
- Interactive test result viewer
- Coverage diff visualization
- Benchmark comparison UI

**Implementation**:
- Use GitHub Pages + PR number subdirectories
- Build docs on PR
- Clean up old PR previews

---

### 8. Advanced Code Coverage

**Status**: Future
**Priority**: Medium
**Estimated Effort**: 1-2 weeks

Enhanced coverage reporting:

**Features**:
- Branch coverage (not just line coverage)
- Inline coverage annotations in PR
- Coverage by feature flag
- Differential coverage (only changed lines)

**Tools**:
- codecov/codecov-action with advanced features
- cargo-llvm-cov for better instrumentation
- coveralls.io as alternative

---

### 9. Canary Deployments

**Status**: Future (post-1.0)
**Priority**: Low
**Estimated Effort**: 1 week

Implement gradual rollout strategy:

**Process**:
1. Publish pre-release to crates.io (0.x.0-beta.1)
2. Test with early adopters (dgx-pixels)
3. Monitor for issues (1 week)
4. Promote to stable release

**Automation**:
```yaml
on:
  push:
    tags:
      - 'v*-beta.*'
jobs:
  publish-beta:
    # Publish to crates.io as pre-release
```

---

### 10. Security Scanning

**Status**: Planned
**Priority**: High
**Estimated Effort**: 2-3 days

Add additional security scans:

**Tools**:
1. **cargo-deny**: License and advisory checking
   ```yaml
   - run: cargo install cargo-deny
   - run: cargo deny check
   ```

2. **SAST (Static Analysis)**:
   - CodeQL for Rust
   - Semgrep security rules

3. **Dependency Scanning**:
   - Trivy for container scanning
   - Snyk for dependency vulnerabilities

---

### 11. Test Parallelization

**Status**: Future optimization
**Priority**: Medium
**Estimated Effort**: 1 week

Improve test execution speed:

**Strategies**:
1. Split tests across multiple jobs
2. Use nextest for faster test execution
3. Identify and parallelize slow tests
4. Implement test sharding

```yaml
strategy:
  matrix:
    shard: [1, 2, 3, 4]
steps:
  - run: cargo nextest run --partition count:${{ matrix.shard }}/4
```

**Target**: Reduce test time from ~5-7 min to ~2-3 min

---

### 12. Scheduled Maintenance Tasks

**Status**: Planned
**Priority**: Medium
**Estimated Effort**: 2-3 days

Automate routine maintenance:

```yaml
name: Scheduled Maintenance

on:
  schedule:
    - cron: '0 0 * * 0'  # Weekly on Sunday

jobs:
  update-deps:
    # Update dependencies
    # Check for outdated crates
    # Create PR with updates

  cleanup-caches:
    # Remove old caches
    # Optimize cache usage

  security-scan:
    # Deep security scan
    # Generate report
```

---

### 13. AI-Powered Code Review

**Status**: Future research
**Priority**: Low
**Estimated Effort**: 1 week

Integrate AI code review tools:

**Options**:
- GitHub Copilot suggestions
- CodeRabbit for PR reviews
- Custom GPT-4 review workflow

**Use Cases**:
- Suggest test improvements
- Identify potential bugs
- Recommend performance optimizations
- Check documentation quality

---

### 14. Integration Testing with Real TUI Apps

**Status**: Planned for Phase 6
**Priority**: High
**Estimated Effort**: 1-2 weeks

Add integration tests with actual TUI applications:

**Test Suite**:
1. Simple hello-world TUI
2. ratatui counter example
3. bevy_ratatui example app
4. dgx-pixels subset tests

**Benefits**:
- Real-world validation
- Catch integration issues
- Demonstrate usage patterns
- Build confidence

---

### 15. Custom GitHub Actions

**Status**: Future
**Priority**: Low
**Estimated Effort**: 1 week

Create reusable actions for common tasks:

**Actions**:
1. `setup-mimic` - Install and cache mimic
2. `run-tui-tests` - Standard TUI test workflow
3. `report-coverage` - Enhanced coverage reporting
4. `benchmark-compare` - Benchmark comparison

**Benefits**:
- Easier adoption for other projects
- Consistent testing patterns
- Reduced workflow boilerplate

---

## Implementation Priority

### Immediate (Next Sprint)
1. None - MVP CI is complete

### Short Term (Phase 7)
1. Cross-platform testing
2. Performance regression detection
3. Security scanning (cargo-deny)
4. Integration testing with real apps

### Medium Term (Phase 8)
1. Visual regression testing
2. Deploy previews
3. Advanced code coverage
4. Test parallelization

### Long Term (Post-1.0)
1. Fuzzing integration
2. Mutation testing
3. Canary deployments
4. AI-powered review

### Research Needed
1. Visual regression testing approach
2. Mutation testing ROI
3. AI code review tools
4. Custom GitHub Actions design

---

## Cost Analysis

### Current CI Usage
- Free tier: 2,000 minutes/month
- Current usage: ~100 minutes/month (estimated)
- Headroom: 95%

### Projected Usage with Enhancements

| Enhancement | Additional Minutes/Month | Cost Impact |
|-------------|--------------------------|-------------|
| Cross-platform (macOS, Windows) | +200 min | Free tier |
| Nightly builds | +100 min | Free tier |
| Performance benchmarks | +50 min | Free tier |
| Fuzzing (nightly) | +300 min | Free tier |
| Mutation testing (weekly) | +200 min | Free tier |
| **Total** | +850 min | **Still within free tier** |

**Conclusion**: All planned enhancements fit within GitHub's free tier for public repositories.

---

## Success Metrics

### Phase 7 Targets
- Cross-platform support: 100% test pass rate on 3 OSes
- Performance: <5% regression tolerance
- CI time: Keep under 30 minutes total

### Phase 8 Targets
- Visual regression: 0 undetected UI bugs
- Fuzzing: Run 10M+ iterations/week
- Coverage: >80% with >90% branch coverage

### Long-term Goals
- Community adoption: 10+ projects using mimic
- CI reliability: 99% uptime
- Test execution: <100ms average per test
- Zero security vulnerabilities in dependencies

---

## Community Contributions

Ways the community can help with CI enhancements:

1. **Test on Different Platforms**
   - Report platform-specific issues
   - Contribute platform-specific fixes

2. **Performance Benchmarking**
   - Run benchmarks on various hardware
   - Identify performance bottlenecks

3. **Integration Examples**
   - Share CI configurations from projects using mimic
   - Contribute example workflows

4. **Tool Evaluations**
   - Research and test new CI tools
   - Write evaluation reports

---

## References

- [GitHub Actions Documentation](https://docs.github.com/en/actions)
- [cargo-nextest](https://nexte.st/)
- [cargo-mutants](https://mutants.rs/)
- [cargo-fuzz](https://rust-fuzz.github.io/book/cargo-fuzz.html)
- [codecov Advanced Features](https://docs.codecov.com/docs)

---

**Last Updated**: 2025-11-19
**Status**: Planning Document
**Next Review**: After Phase 6 completion
